# Capstone group-3

# Travel Europe LLC - Web App (Capstone Project)

Documentation corresponding to Capstone Project Group 3.

The objective of this project was to take an existing web application, containerize it, and publish it on the internet through GCP infrastructure.

Original Project Repository:

https://github.com/RSanchez19/Travel-Europe-LLC---Web-App

---

## Sprints

###  Sprint 1: Containerization and Artifact Registry

A web app was implemented from a GitHub repository. To create the containerized image, the repository was cloned in Google Cloud's Cloudshell and a dockerfile was created using python:3.8-slim. Similarly, the necessary Python libraries and dependencies were installed to serve the web page. Flask was used, exposing port 5000 to access the page.

The Docker image travel-europe-py was built and successfully tested by accessing localhost:5000.

Finally, the tag was created and pushed to a private Google repository within Artifact Registry in the us-central1 region.

###  Sprint 2: Public Deployment on the Web
 
To deploy the page, we used three services:

#### 1: Google Compute Engine (GCE) + Load Balancer
The container was deployed in a GCE MIG (Managed Instance Group), which consists of 3 VMs following a template for the creation of each.

Then, a Global HTTP Load Balancer (Layer 7) was configured, connected to a managed instance group. Firewall rules were created so that access to the VMs is limited, allowing only Google's health checks (130.211.0.0/22, 35.191.0.0/16). Despite having an External IP, these are not directly accessible.

External Endpoint: The page was made public through the IP generated by the Load Balancer: http://8.232.126.132

#### 2: Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)
A GKE cluster was created in Autopilot mode named travel-europe-cluster, and a deployment named travel-europe-llc-deploy was performed by extracting the image directly hosted in Artifact Registry.

The service was exposed to the outside by configuring a LoadBalancer type service on port 5000 to access the web page and receive traffic from port 80.

External Endpoint (GKE): A public IP http://34.63.166.5 was assigned with a target port of 5000 because it is the port where the container listens, making it possible to access the web publicly.

A firewall rule was also configured in the custom network to allow external inbound traffic (0.0.0.0/0) towards port 80 of the cluster.

### 3: Cloud Run

To access the web page from the Cloud Run service, an existing container needs to be deployed. In this case, it was deployed from the already created Artifact Registry repository. The container image was selected and, as with the other services, port 5000 needs to be configured for external access. To access it, we use the following URL: https://travel-europe-py-730535479509.us-central1.run.app

---

## Utilities
* **Containers:** Docker
* **Web-Server:** Python-flask
* **Image Storage:** Google Artifact Registry
* **Cómpute:** Google Compute Engine (GCE), Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE Autopilot)
